Javarb/session 34 35 serialization (#158)
kinbiko/mentoring: students/javarb/sessions/2019/may/Session_34-35-Serialization/Session_34-35-Serialization.md

# SOFTWARE ENGINEERING IN JAVA

## Session 34 (21/05/2019 )

- Research homework [on my project](https://github.com/kinbiko/mentoring/projects/7) board.

## Notes

### Homework

#### Part 1
Figure out the most popular libraries for turning JSON strings into POJOs, and for turning POJOs into JSON.

#### Part 2

> Write a simple project to benchmark their performance for serialization and serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a simple project to benchmark their performance for serialization and deserialization.
```

#### Part 3
Write a blog post (preferably in English) about what you discovered.

I have get to decide:

- how many libraries to check
- how you can create a benchmark
- how to write your blog post.

### Solution

#### Part 1

I found this [Top 5 Libraries for Serialization and Deserialization JSON in Java](https://simplesolution.dev/top-5-libraries-for-serialization-and-deserialization-json-in-java/). There they are mentioning following libraries:

- [Gson](https://github.com/google/gson)
- [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson)
- [Fastjson](https://github.com/alibaba/fastjson)
- [Moshi](https://github.com/square/moshi)

> - [Jsoniter](https://github.com/square/moshi)

Reviewer: wrong link here

> I found [this other article](http://dgimenes.com/blog/2014/03/14/java-comparing-json-encoding-libraries.html) when the person who wrote is concluding that Gson and Jackson are best libraries but also is mentioning [JSON.org](http://json.org/) library which [seems to be obsolete now](https://stackoverflow.com/a/7623694). There in JSON.org, we can see these list of links to different Java libraries to handle serialization:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I found [this other article](http://dgimenes.com/blog/2014/03/14/java-comparing-json-encoding-libraries.html) where the author concludes that Gson and Jackson are the best libraries, but it also mentions [JSON.org](http://json.org/) library, which [seems to be obsolete now](https://stackoverflow.com/a/7623694). JSON.org provides a huge list of links to different Java libraries to handle serialization:
```

- JSON-java.
- JSONUtil.
- jsonp.
- Json-lib.
- Stringtree.
- SOJO.
- json-taglib.
- Flexjson.
- Argo.
- jsonij.
- fastjson.
- mjson.
- jjson.
- json-simple.
- json-io.
- google-gson.
- FOSS Nova JSON.
- Corn CONVERTER.
- Apache johnzon.
- Genson
- cookjson.
- progbase.

> Stil is a extensive list it's strange Jackson isn't there.

Reviewer: That's because json.org is a very old and outdated site.

## Session 34 (21/05/2019 )

#### Part 2 - Benchmark project

> I decided to use: **Gson, Jackson and FastJson ** for my checks. In order to use them I needed to include them on `build.gradle` file:

Reviewer: Be careful with the markdown here.

```suggestion
I decided to use: **Gson, Jackson and FastJson** for my checks. In order to use them I needed to include them on `build.gradle` file:
```

```java
dependencies {
	//...

> 	compile group: 'com.google.code.gson', name: 'gson', version: '2.8.5'

Reviewer: are these the latest versions available right now? If so, can we mention that above.

	compile group: 'com.fasterxml.jackson.core', name: 'jackson-databind', version: '2.9.8'
	compile group: 'com.alibaba', name: 'fastjson', version: '1.2.56'
}
```

> In my first approximation  solution. I was using a single class called `Serialization.java` and a POJO called `Person.java`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In my first approximation solution. I was using a single class called `Serialization.java` and a POJO called `Person.java`. 
```

> The idea behind the benchmark was use a single time in miliseconds comparison after serialize a list set of persons. 

Reviewer 2: While `persons` is grammatically correct for the plural of person and it makes sense in in this context, I would worry with the close similarity in spelling between `persons` for the List and `person` for the class instance (I would just get confused!). I suggest having `people` for the List, and `person` for the class instance - this way they are easier to distinguish. I have added the recommendations in the case you decide to go ahead with this.
```suggestion
The idea behind the benchmark was to use a single-time comparison (in milliseconds) after serialising a list of people. 
```

> Receiving feedback of Roger, I finished to write `main()` method of `Serialization.java`. There, a for loop was populating a `List` of `Person` objects and passing over another for loop to store the benchmark results of calculate the miliseconds time that takes to serialize the list of `Person`s. That results are stored in another `List` that is passes to `mean` method in order to calculate mean value and print it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Receiving feedback of Roger, I finished to write `main()` method of `Serialization.java`. There, a for loop was populating a `List` of `Person` objects and passing over another for loop to store the benchmark results of calculate the miliseconds time that takes to serialize the list of `People`. These results are stored in another `List` that is passed to the `mean()` method in order to calculate the mean value and print it:
```

```java
//...

> List<Person> persons = new ArrayList<>();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List<Person> people = new ArrayList<>();
```

for (int i = 0; i < 20000; i++) {

> 	Person person = new Person();

Reviewer: Let's be consistent with tabs vs. spaces (this line uses a tab, but the next lines use spaces)

    person.setId(i);
    person.setName("Name_" + i);
    person.setAge(i % 100);

>     persons.add(i, person);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    people.add(i, person);
```

}

List<Long> gsonResults = new ArrayList<>();
List<Long> jacksonResults = new ArrayList<>();
List<Long> fastjsonResults = new ArrayList<>();

for (int i = 0; i < 150; i++) {

> 	gsonResults.add(benchmarkGson(persons));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	gsonResults.add(benchmarkGson(people));
```

> 	jacksonResults.add(benchmarkJackson(persons));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	jacksonResults.add(benchmarkJackson(people));
```

> 	fastjsonResults.add(benchmarkFastjson(persons));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	fastjsonResults.add(benchmarkFastjson(people));
```

}

long gsonMean = mean(gsonResults);
System.out.println("Gson = " + gsonMean + " ms");

long jacksonMean = mean(jacksonResults);
System.out.println("Gson = " + gsonMean + " ms");

long fastjsonMean = mean(fastjsonResults);
System.out.println("Gson = " + gsonMean + " ms");
//...
```

Following code chunk, performs serialization returning miliseconds time benchmark in this example for Gson serialization library:
```java

> private static long benchmarkGson(List<Person> persons) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
private static long benchmarkGson(List<Person> people) {
```

	long begin = System.currentTimeMillis();

> 	new Gson().toJson(persons);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	new Gson().toJson(people);
```

	return System.currentTimeMillis() - begin;
}
```

Finally, method on charge of return the mean can be seen following:
```java
private long mean(List<Long> benchmarks) {
	long sum = 0;  
	for (Long benchmark : benchmarks) {
		sum += benchmark;
	}
	return sum / benchmarks.size();
}
```

A for loop was used in order to add up benchmarks in order to after get the final mean time benchmarked. 

> 

Reviewer 2: With regards to benchmarking - actually the median might be better to use than the mean. These notes come from something I was reading yesterday, and I include them because it's interesting, and it might be useful for you to write why you use the mean as a benchmark, and that there are other options out there:

- The mean is not a very good metric if you want to know your “typical” response time, because it doesn’t tell you how many users actually experienced that delay.
- Usually it is better to use percentiles. If you take your list of response times and sort it from fastest to slowest, then the median is the halfway point: for example, if your median response time is 200 ms, that means half your requests return in less than 200 ms, and half your requests take longer than that.
- This makes the median a good metric if you want to know how long users typically have to wait: half of user requests are served in less than the median response time, and the other half take longer than the median. 
- The median is also known as the 50th percentile, and sometimes abbreviated as p50. 
- Note that the median refers to a single request; if the user makes several requests (over the course of a session, or because several resources are included in a single page), the probability that at least one of them is slower than the median is much greater than 50%.
- In order to figure out how bad your outliers are, you can look at higher percentiles: the 95th, 99th, and 99.9th percentiles are common (abbreviated p95, p99, and p999).
- High percentiles of response times, also known as tail latencies, are important because they directly affect users’ experience of the service. Reducing response times at very high percentiles is difficult because they are easily affected by random events outside of your control, and the benefits are diminishing.
- Percentiles are often used in service level objectives (SLOs) and service level agreements (SLAs), contracts that define the expected performance and availability of a service. These metrics set expectations for clients of the ser‐ vice and allow customers to demand a refund if the SLA is not met.

It also goes on to say:
> Beware that averaging percentiles, e.g., to reduce the time resolution or to com‐ bine data from several machines, is mathematically meaningless—the right way of aggregating response time data is to add the histograms.

- from Martin Kleppmann - Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Systems (2017, O’Reilly Media) pp. 14-16.

Reviewer: You're absolutely right, and in fact we should be measuring more metrics than just mean. (E.g. 99th percentile, median, standard deviation etc.). But for the purposes of this exercise, the mean alone is good enough :)

Author: I think this information is pretty much useful I will check on this.

**Note:** As a side note, there is another way to iterate by using `foreach()` lambda funcion:
```java
benchmarks.forEach(b -> sum +=b);
```

> As can be seen, this kind of function is practical to use but isn't possible to modify the elements we are iterating over, so we cannot use it here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As can be seen, this kind of function is practical to use but it isn't possible to modify the elements we are iterating over, so we cannot use it here.
```

#### Part 2 - Benchmark project in OOP

> After code was running, we saw code could be improved through asimilation of OOP concepts which allow us to include any library we want to our benchmark without need to modify our main funcions and code. So instead of that, we could add another serialization library just by including the library on `build.gradle`, create the corresponding class for that implementation,  and instantiating/ executing library's `benchmark()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the code was running, we saw that the code could be improved through assimilation of OOP concepts which allow us to include any library we want to our benchmark without the need to modify our main functions and code. So instead of that, we could add another serialization library just by including the library in `build.gradle`, create the corresponding class for that implementation, and instantiating/ executing the library's `benchmark()` method.
```

So, following explanation about our OOP code.

> `Serialization.java` continues being main class whicn instantiate each kind of benchmark:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Serialization.java` continues being main class which instantiates each kind of benchmark:
```

```java
public class Serialization {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        new JacksonBenchmark().benchmark(150, 200000);
        new GsonBenchmark().benchmark(150, 200000);
        new FastjsonBenchmark().benchmark(150, 200000);
    }
}
```

> Each type of bechmark inherit from abstract class `Benchmark`. In that class,  `bechmark()` contructor  method is implemented, altogether with `mean()` and `runBenchmark()`, the latter is defined as an abstract method that is implemented in each subclass:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each type of benchmark inherits from the abstract class `Benchmark`. In that class, a `bechmark()` constructor  method is implemented, altogether with `mean()` and `runBenchmark()`, the latter is defined as an abstract method that is implemented in each subclass:
```

```java
public abstract class Benchmark {
    public void benchmark(int samplesize, int objects) {

>         List<Person> persons = new ArrayList<>();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        List<Person> people = new ArrayList<>();
```

        for (int i = 0; i < objects; i++) {
            Person person = new Person();
            person.setId(i);
            person.setName("Name_" + i);
            person.setAge(i % 100);

>             persons.add(i, person);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            people.add(i, person);
```

        }

        List<Long> results = new ArrayList<>();

        for (int i = 0; i < samplesize; i++) {

>             results.add(runBenchmark(persons));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            results.add(runBenchmark(people));
```

        }

        long mean = mean(results);
        System.out.println("Result of " + getClass().getSimpleName() + " = "+ mean + " ms");

    }

>     protected abstract Long runBenchmark(List<Person> persons);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    protected abstract Long runBenchmark(List<Person> people);
```

Reviewer: In the future @perrymant, you can probably get away with a single comment suggesting that we rename `persons` -> `people`. Saves you a fair bit of work, and makes the review comments less daunting :)

    private long mean(List<Long> benchmarks) {
        long sum = 0;       
        for (Long benchmark : benchmarks) {
            sum += benchmark;
        }
        return sum / benchmarks.size();
    }
}
```

> Then, when a specific implementation is running the constructor, for example for, for Jackson `new JacksonBenchmark().benchmark(150, 200000);` this will execute `runBenchmark()` for that specific library implementation, in this case called `JacksonBenchmark` which is inheriting from `Benchmark` class and implementing `runBenchmark()` method according to library specifications:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, when a specific implementation is running the constructor, for example for, for Jackson `new JacksonBenchmark().benchmark(150, 200000);` this will execute `runBenchmark()` for that specific library implementation, in this case called `JacksonBenchmark` which is inheriting from the `Benchmark` class and implementing the `runBenchmark()` method according to library specifications:
```

```java
public class JacksonBenchmark extends Benchmark {
    @Override

>     protected Long runBenchmark(List<Person> persons) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    protected Long runBenchmark(List<Person> people) {
```

        long begin = System.currentTimeMillis();
        try {

>             new ObjectMapper().writeValueAsString(persons);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            new ObjectMapper().writeValueAsString(people);
```

        } catch (JsonProcessingException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
        return System.currentTimeMillis() - begin;
    }
}
```
**Note:** `@Override` annotation specifies we are overriding the specfied method, this is specially useful for a [couple of reasons](https://stackoverflow.com/a/94411/4278635):

> - Compiler will warn us if there is a misspelling in the name of our method, or wrong use of method's parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The compiler will warn us if there is a misspelling in the name of our method, or wrong use of the method's parameters.
```

- Make code easier to understand because becomes obvious what that method is doing.

Other implementations can be seen on correspondig code project on this same directory. 

#### Part 3 - Blog 

> I opened a blog on wordpress to keep this and another technology things https://jaarit.wordpress.com/ 

Reviewer: Oh nice! I just thought a markdown file would do, as long as it was written as a blog post. We could then generate a github-pages site for this repo where we could showcase your (yours, and the others') blog post. But if you prefer to have your own blog I certainly applaud that!

Author: I think that if you are on agree, we could handle both feed internat github-pages showcase and also I could publish material of mine on my wordpress site. I like that idea :)
